Hello and welcome back to there we're going to be talking about functional dependency functional dependencies
are very important and ask you well because the main reason for using Eskew and structured databases
is to sign dependencies between different relations and just general data.
If you can connect several tables together them on of information you can get from analyzing it.
Ken grew up rapidly compared to just analyzing these free tables on their own.
So dependencies Akure when an attribute or set of attributes identifies particular value of and under
it read the most common example of dependencies is foreign key because you have one table that depends
on another table to get all the information from the table.
And if your foreign key is compromised or another table is corrupted then you run into problems.
But as long as it keeps great database maintenance you will never run into that problem and you will
always get the results you want.
So when designing an efficient database that the word redundancy identifying the Benghazi's help us
to ensure every column in a table is dependent on the primary key and have the primary key as simple
as possible.
So when you're developing databases don't forget that two tables not only depend on the chapter tables
depend on themselves to maintain data integrity.
So let's go ahead and take a look at this table.
Here we have a relation consisting of four attributes and five to you both as you can see here we have
some duplicate values in several rows.
But overall this database looks pretty good.
Now here's the task we need to identify dependencies inside of this table.
So what column is depending on what column.
If we go from right to left and we take a look at subject result column doesn't depend on anything else.
Doesn't Martin that studen got depend on his name or the subject he took or his student ID.
Of course not.
So subject resolved is not related to anything in this relation.
It will probably relate to the Assignment table if we have one now subject ID.
Again it does not depend on student name or student ID or subject result.
It will most probably depend on a table called faculty or university even where we have all the subject
names and older subject curriculum and all the subject purposes.
And then we'll see dependencies subject he will most probably be connected to a database named faculty
or even university in which will have subject names subject purposes and subject curriculums.
Now if we take a look at the name here we see something interesting because the name does not depend
on which subject to send fix or the result he gets.
But student name depends on student Adey because university assign us this unique identifying number
to easier to manipulate the database and track our records our name directly corresponds to student
ID.
So now what.
Depends on what is student ID dependent on you to name or is student name dependent on the name.
Well here's a very simple exercise that will answer a question.
Let's pretend that we're going to change her name.
I can always change my name legally and get it printed on my new student card.
Will that change my student ID.
No of course not.
Because I have not changed for the database.
I might have a different name but I'm still enrolled in the same subject.
I was still enrolled with this university.
Now when can a changed student ID.
Well if I want to change student ID I will have to either drop out or finish the university and then
when I am going to apply again for this university or master's program I might be assigned a new student
ID but the only reason for that happening is because my old record would have been deleted meaning that
student ID does not depend on anything and we just found our dependency in this table.
That student ID dictate the student name.
So as he can see it wasn't that hard but it would have been much much harder if we already created the
database and we never bothered to assign a primary key or even to think about data integrity inside
the table.
So this is again and I cannot stress it enough.
It's very important in as well in structured database to define all of your dependencies to define all
of your rules and all types of data you are going to be using before you started creating it in a database
design process because otherwise you will just have a very part time fixing it all up and you'll probably
end up just creating a whole new table.
I hope you enjoyed this lecture.
It was a very fun lecture and this whole section is a lot of fun.
It's nice to learn a bit of Fiori why we do all the practice and just get your mind straight on what
you want to do when you're creating another base and what you want in a wide.
So again make sure you have a plan before designing another base and everything else will fall in place.
I hope you enjoyed this lecture and I'll see you in the next one.